Most of AT&T's existence,
they had somewhat checkered
relationship with the government.
The government really liked and benefited
from the role that AT&T was playing,
this seamless network across the country,
definitely much better voice quality.
Compared to other countries,
where the telephone network was
always run by the government.
But here, it was always a separate,
private entity.
But the government also tried
to break up AT&T many times.
In 1914 there was the Kingsbury Agreement
between AT&T and the government.
This meant that they had to
let the independent exchanges
use their long distance networks,
of course, for a price.
And in 1921, the Willis Graham Act,
which essentially loosened
up the activities
that AT&T was undertaking, going and
purchasing all the independent exchanges.
And what they said was,
they needed to get an approval,
they couldn't just go willy-nilly and
buy everyone.
Which was not much of an issue,
it gave Theodore Vail and
the people who succeeded him,
his policies were pretty
much continued all the way til
the break up of the AT&T network.
In 1947 the Department of Justice again
tried to break up Western Electric
because it was very big and
hugely profitable and a monopoly.
And this battle lasted about seven
years between AT&T and the government.
And this time they agreed not to
get into computer business, but
they could continue business as
normal again for some more time.
One of the more surprising
decisions was by FCC in 1968.
There was Mr. Carter in Texas who
wanted to attach a wireless
transceiver to his AT&T phone, and
he could call and talk to people
much further away in the field.
And, of course, AT&T sued this and
FCC gave its verdict in favor of Mr.
Carter.
What this meant was cordless phones,
modems and answering machines,
all kinds of different networks,
could actually connect
to the AT&T network and
increase the value of the service,
which was not allowed before.
And in the mid-1970s there were other
long distance competitors like MCI and
Sprint.
And they didn't quite like
the tactics that AT&T was
playing in terms of business
equitable relationships,
the cost of the interconnection, how long
it takes to get the service rolling.
They were alleged to have
been using all kinds of
indirect means of excluding competition.
And in 1974 there was another lawsuit,
and this went on til 1982.
And this time the argument
was to break up AT&T in 1984.
And, after the break up they were
Regional Bell Operating Companies, RBOCs,
that were doing the local business, and
AT&T still had the long distance business.
And, of course, everybody was chasing
the wireless technologies and
cell phones at this time.
So you see very,
very interesting mergers and
acquisitions that happened
following the breakup.
And you still see some of them happening.